DMC 1000 - Reading Journal 6
This week, we turn our attention to documentary filmmaking and the work of Mo Asumang, who will be our guest this coming Monday. Please read Bill Nichols' overview of documentary filmmaking (https://www.dropbox.com/s/6fy1g7g5upmkyly/Nichols%20--%20Documentaries.pdf?dl=0) and a little bit about Mo Asumang (https://www.mo-asumang-management.com/about.html).

Read these pieces, take notes, and write down your responses.

This assignment is DUE OCTOBER 20, 2019.
* Required



What is your full name (first and last; preferred name OK)? *

Hayden Schiff


How difficult to understand were the readings this week? *
Easy
1
2
3
4
5
Difficult

4


Nichols: What kind of arguments can documentaries make? Give at least one example, either from the reading or your experience. *

The style of argument and rhetoric that a documentarian uses will vary heavily depending on what kind of message they intend to send. Many documentaries are made to shine a light on problems or injustices, and thus will try to show the worst victims or consequences in the most vivid and raw form possible, to evoke empathy from the viewer. For example, to argue against the inhumane treatment of animals, "Food Inc." showed footage from inside a large chicken house with countless chickens packed in an extremely tight space and closeups of the chickens' legs, which are unable to support the bodies which have been bred to maximize meat product.


Nichols: What techniques are utilized in documentaries to convince the viewer of its authenticity? Again, give at least one example. *

Many documentaries will try to prove their authenticity by being highly transparent about the processes by which they obtained their information, or will try to include interviews from figures of authority or other people who would be widely recognized as having expertise. For example, the documentary "Showrunners: The Art of Running a TV Show" made heavy use of interviews with highly successful and well-recognized Hollywood figures such as Joss Whedon and J.J. Abrams.


Asumang: What question do you have prepared to ask the filmmaker? *

I'm a bit late on this one, but if I had it to do over, I'd like to ask her what some of the scariest moments she experienced in the filmmaking process were? (i.e. when she was most worried for her personal safety)
