DMC 1000 - Reading Journal 3
The pieces you are reading this week are by Daniel Warner (https://drive.google.com/open?id=1T_YvHHMDTDJai__8VY2VFT1B3gOtRLAq), Seth Price (https://drive.google.com/open?id=10gwLr_jXLQbvk2xgCgGI37pXJ3DWaM8A), and Kenneth Goldsmith (https://drive.google.com/open?id=1tTND2w-BDngnK4XhhzzGUQlokHAcz0FT)

In addition, please watch this short video on Dogs and the Internet:  https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts/100000005852293/pet-videos-dog-cat.html

Please read the texts, watch the video, take notes for yourself, and then put in *thoughtful* responses into the form below. You will likely want to enter the text in another program (Microsoft Word, Notepad, TextEdit, etc.) so that it can be saved, and then Copy-Pasted here. There are no *absolute right answers here* -- only the ones you can argue, based on evidence that you've found in the texts provided or elsewhere.

This second assignment is DUE SEPTEMBER 22, 2019.
* Required


What is your full name (first and last; preferred name OK)? *




How difficult to understand were the readings this week? *
Easy
1
2
3
4
5
Difficult

3


Dogs Took Over The Internet: What is the overall argument of this video? What other meme or visual example can you think of as a metaphor for the modern Internet? Why? *

The video argues that we love dogs and cats for the different parts of our psyche that they symbolically represent. Cats were popular in the early messy days of the internet, which fits with our vision of cats as creatures of chaos. Dogs are becoming more popular now as the web becomes more like traditional media with big companies, and the easily trained lovable dog makes sense as a mascot. I think another great metaphor for the internet is the highly surreal memes that have become popular particularly with young generations. As the internet becomes more and more a core component of our society, our understanding of the world is rapidly shifting, and the language we use to communicate is evolving at breakneck speeds. These bizarre surrealist memes, and importantly, the think piece articles they have spawned about how "millennial jokes are so weird" and "what's wrong with their sense of humor?", are symbolic of the way our society is changing faster than ever before. There has always been a gap an understanding between the youth and the old, but these odd memes which are riotously funny to some and practically Greek to others are an example of how extreme and wide the generational gap has become.


Warner: How does technical equipment interface with artists' personal music histories? To re-visit an earlier point: How do our tools dictate what we can make with them? *

New music tools and software are typically adopted very gradually by the musician community, and the most successful tools tend to build upon the successes of previous popular tools. Musicians can often take what they know from previous instruments (electronic or not), and meld it with the new tool to create something new and unique. Our tools dictate what we can make because they shape our understanding of what's possible. Creative work at its core is all figuring out how to accomplish an end goal within a given set of constraints, and the strengths and limitations of our toolset are very significant because they dictate what those constraints may be.


Goldsmith: What are some clichés and moral panics about our Internet and smartphone usage? What is Goldsmith's response to them? Give 2 examples. *

Many people say that the rapid pace of information available to use with smartphones and the internet is making us lose our ability to concentrate and sustain interest in things. Goldsmith's response is that people are "addicted" to their phones because they are becoming highly engaged with content on it -- their ability to concentrate is clearly unimpeded. Another cliche is that we (particularly children) are losing the ability to distinguish the real from the fake when we are so immersed in online content. Goldsmith addressed by asking whether online interactions really should be considered any less "real" than meatspace interactions.


Price: What is the "three-part arc" of the history of cinema? Describe it in your own words. *

Early film fanatics experienced cinema in a very personal way, using various devices that required manual hand-based operation. As the technology improved, the manual devices became obsolete and gave way for the rise of the movie theaters, where film could be a shared experience for a large crowd instead of a strictly personal operation. However, as technology has advanced further still, the pendulum has swung the other way, and with the rise of the VCR, DVD, DVR, and now streaming services, film has once again become a very personal matter which the majority of people prefer to experience in their own homes.

