1)
Lepore talks about a few different major turning points in the history of journalism, but by far her biggest focus seems to be on the arrival of the internet. With the rise of freely-available news online, the old ways of merely-daily news and cities with several local papers died out. A few publications adapted somewhat well to the internet, such as the Guardian with its early adoption and early shift to a "digital-first" strategy. However, most publications were caught off guard and found themselves struggling to contend with new publications like HuffPost, BuzzFeed, and the Drudge Report.

2)
I liked this passage on page 5: "Recently, photography has become almost as widely practiced an amusement as sex and dancing—which means that, like every mass art form, photography is not practiced by most people as an art. It is mainly a social rite, a defense against anxiety, and a tool of power."

Although she goes on to say a lot of negative things about this and about some broader aspects of photography (ironic given the relationship she would later have with Annie Leibowitz), I thought this passage showed a rather positive thing. The universal availability and portability of cameras (which is even more so today than when she published this in 1973) has given an equalizing tool to the masses and given a voice to the voiceless. Billions of people now have the power to immortalize a moment and tell a story that might have otherwise not been so convincing. Would we have understood and responded to the plight of Dust Bowl farmers or Vietnam War civilians without photos like Dorothea Lange's Migrant Mother or Nick Ut's Terror of War? Even more less artistic/professional camera work such as the video of Eric Garner's death have been invaluable to our society. It may not be the point that Sontag was going for but I think that the rise of popular photography has been a huge positive for society.

3)
I check the Washington Post, the New York Times, and FiveThirtyEight each a few times a day, and I occasionally check Ars Technica, Cincinnati.com, and The Athletic. I have all of those and many other publications aggregated into feeds using the news aggregator app Feedly, which I have recently started checking throughout the day. I also get some news from Twitter by following various journalists and publications.

4)
I'm somewhat deliberate about what sorts of news I want to follow. I pay the most attention to national politics and sports (but mostly only MLS soccer and college basketball), but also follow tech, local politics, and gaming to a lesser extent.
