DMC 1000 - Reading Journal 10
Here is the LAST Reading Journal for this class. There will be a presentation by Tanja Nusser on representations of Nazis, and a short presentation by me on modern-day issues in Media Distribution.

The materials are:
• Moers and Pigor: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=grQf9OOphFs
• Miller and Sherman 
#1: https://drive.google.com/open?id=17eA84Hw533Q3qWZ_8uRZZtdlaRqNnwiZ
#2: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1YY4tXkkTdudxWYaR64lBcN8ss-RSsPkY
• Nieborg and Poell:
https://drive.google.com/open?id=10OPfU74L4OuKbu3mkgU8o6Pze7PgnqUQ
• Anderson:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Yku0GTrcuw

Respond as best you can in the next several days as you finalize your projects.

The assignment is DUE NOVEMBER 24, 2019.
* Required


What is your full name (first and last; preferred name OK)? *

Hayden Schiff


How difficult to understand were the materials this week? *
Easy
1
2
3
4
5
Difficult

3


Moers, Pigot, Miller, and Sherman: What is your emotional reaction to seeing Hitler in a bathtub? How about a photo of people in Hitler's bathtub? *

If I'm being honest, neither the video nor the photos provoked much of an emotional reaction in me. As Godwin's law tells us, Hitler and Nazis have become very over-referenced in the internet age,. For me (and I think for many others), media which references Hitler casually doesn't really trigger an association in my brain with the real Hitler. In short, I've become a bit desensitized. Serious media which talks about the horrific events of World War II and the Holocaust still very much moves me, but a goofy cartoon character with a thin mustache doesn't really remind me of those events in any sort of visceral way.


Nieborg and Poell: What does the platformization of content mean for independent creators? What can media content creators do to capitalize on their work? *

Independent content creators are increasingly beholden to the arbitrary whims of massive corporations that are only vaguely concerned with meeting creators' needs. Before the web and even in the early days of it, independent creators were free to advertise and distribute their works through any number of means, and could even choose to operate entirely solo. In the current internet era, however, an enormous portion of consumers' time and interest is consumed by a very small number of websites and apps, and any creator who wants to interact with those consumers needs to work with those few companies. In essence, creators cannot so easily walk away from the table and thus have lost a great deal of leverage. To navigate this environment, creators must strive to be adaptable and avoid getting "locked in" to individual platforms.


Anderson: What does the "long tail" mean for media distribution, and how does it apply to more obscure media, such as student productions? *

In traditional media distribution methods (movie theaters, retail stores, etc), there has always been a strong bottleneck on the number of possible media items that could be distributed. There are only so many movie screens and so much retail shelf space available in the country, so only the biggest productions that had the broadest appeal could make it to consumers. With the rise of the internet, however, distribution capacity has dropped far far down as a limiting factor. When all your inventory can be hundreds of miles away from the consumer in a warehouse or server farm, there is little limit to how much product you can offer. This means that niche media are now economically feasible to create and distribute, and it turns out there is a huge demand for them. Online retailers and services offering vast selections of media have rapidly taken a huge share of the total market for media. Although there is less demand for any one piece of obscure media, the demand for niche media at large is almost equal to the demand for mainstream media at large.

