
DMC 1000 - Reading Journal 5
We are now watching and reading works related to transmedia and immersive worldbuilding. These would be Industrial Light and Magic special effects master Dennis Muren (watch from beginning up to ~11:18 -- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dNivRaQPfVY), the 2013 report on Transmedia and learning (https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ykKgrMn-txj6ZyKd_J0II-gnCye8aTdE) and my own 2018 joint article on worldbuilding and role-playing games (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZoUIUBZ49bLMFv4lcTpnRuCbLmd-RNer/view?usp=sharing)

Read and watch these with interest, take notes, and write down your responses.

This assignment is DUE OCTOBER 13, 2019.
* Required
What is your full name (first and last; preferred name OK)? *
Hayden Schiff
How difficult to understand were the readings this week? *
Easy
1
2
3
4
5
Difficult
Muren: How do real, lived sensory experiences inform Muren's graphical work? Give one example that he gives. *
Muren said that he tries to use real life experiences or images/videos he's found of real life experiences as the basis for his effects. He referenced his role as a translator for the director, where he starts his process from the idea of doing the effect for real, and translates it into something that can be done feasibly as an effect. An example that he gives is the fire drops that he witnessed at Yosemite National Park as a kid. They would drop burning wood off the side of a cliff and he thought it'd be a good reference for creating an effect such as a fire waterfall.
Transmedia: What are the main ingredients of a good, playful, transmedia experience? *
The report lists three core principles for a good transmedia experience: Play Partners, Places to Play, and Paradigm-shifting Play. Play Partners means that the experience should enable relationships between the producer and the consumer as well in-between consumers, allowing sharing and communal engagement. Places to Play means that the place where the experience is held should be physically well-managed and accessible and designed with mobility in mind. Paradigm-shifting Play means the experience should modify the consumer's existing concepts or "blow their mind" to make a long-lasting impact.
Worldbuilding in RPGs: What is one major concept in worldbuilding that you can explain in your own words? How would that concept describe worlds you've created or those of others? *
A meta-text is a piece of content that describes a world in greater detail than the media itself does, acting as a sort of reference guide. They can come in many different forms such as wikis, timelines, or maps, and can be made by the designers, the fans, or some combination thereof. A quintessential example of a meta-text that comes to mind for me is the handbooks for a game like Dungeons and Dragons. The campaigns, whether they be officially produced or invented by the DM, all heavily rely on the player's handbook and character sheets and so on for the very basics of their story. In D&D, the world is built based on these meta-texts, rather than the other way around (as might be the case for, say, a fan wiki).
What is your favorite transmedia franchise and why? (Popular titles include: Star Wars, Marvel Super Heroes, Harry Potter, Steven Universe, League of Legends, etc.) *
I'd probably pick Rooster Teeth, which is technically a production company that makes several franchises rather than a franchise in and of itself, but all their productions have so many shared staff members and themes that it feels a lot like a singular franchise. I've been following them since their early days making Red vs Blue, and I've always found them to be very funny and sort of unique and original. They're best known for sci-fi/comedy works, which is a somewhat uncommon genre combination, but one that I really enjoy.
Never submit passwords through Google Forms.
This content is neither created nor endorsed by Google. Report Abuse - Terms of Service
Google Forms