DMC 1000 - Reading Journal 2
The pieces you are reading this week are by Scott McCloud (https://drive.google.com/open?id=1aXM5WOaGIqsjA8nsx9jDM3elv9w5SfqJ) and Jennifer Van Sijll (https://drive.google.com/open?id=1dwTyUB5H4lPj87JTE02ptbUKedaLqHoJ).

In addition, you should make a reasonable attempt to watch the material that Denise Burge and Kim Burleigh will present on animation. These works can be found here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nmy3q0jPhaEZKqtxBVFeuMCW9xG7FWWN5DEpFKY2oNc/edit?usp=sharing

Please read the texts, watch the videos, take notes for yourself, and then put in *thoughtful* responses into the form below. You will likely want to enter the text in another program (Microsoft Word, Notepad, TextEdit, etc.) so that it can be saved, and then Copy-Pasted here. There are no *absolute right answers here* -- only the ones you can argue, based on evidence that you've found in the texts provided or elsewhere.

This second assignment is DUE SEPTEMBER 15, 2019.
* Required


What is your full name (first and last; preferred name OK)? *

Hayden Schiff


How difficult to understand were the readings this week? *
Easy
1
2
3
4
5
Difficult




McCloud: What lessons can comics teach us about digital media? Think of 1-2 specific examples of how understanding comics as a form maps well onto understanding other media (comics, games, podcasts, etc.) *

Comics teach us that we risk limiting our world view if we pigeonhole any particular form of media into only offering limited forms of content. In American society, comics may be the most extreme example of this, as the majority of Americans likely think of comics as each short corny jokes in their local newspaper, or stories about superheroes, and not much else. However, we see from graphic novels like Art Spiegelman's Maus and comics from abroad such as Japanese manga that the medium has a lot more to offer, and can be used to tell the same breadth of stories as any other medium. Another medium which gets a similar treatment is animation, which in America is typically associated with substanceless kids shows or adult shows focused on immature humor. However, the medium is capable of much more, as the anime industry in Japan clearly shows.


Van Sijll: Watch a clip of a movie, TV show, music video, or webisode that you'd ordinarily see anyway. Provide a link to it. Now describe a short sequence of shots (3-4 max.) using the visual language that Van Sijll articulates in her initial chapters. *




Burge and Burleigh: Watch the videos related to the lecture and answer the questions: How do these pieces visually (dis)orient the viewer? What do you see as a "message" of any of these works? How is animation for a museum or gallery different than animation for other contexts? *



